audio_production_strategist.modelfile: llama3.2
content_strategist_pro.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
cross_model_synthesizer.modelfile: llama3.2
decision_enhancer.modelfile: llama3.2
decision_simplifier_v2.modelfile: llama3.2
digital_asset_curator.modelfile: llama3.2
digital_storyteller.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
engagement_optimizer.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
enhanced_agent_enforcer_v2.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
enhanced_agent_enforcer.modelfile: llama3.2
enhanced_agent_fast_v2.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
enhanced_agent_fast_v3.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
enhanced_agent_fast_v4.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
enhanced_agent_fast_v5.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
enhanced_agent_fast_v6.modelfile: llama3.2
enhanced_agent_fast_v7.modelfile: llama3.2
father_daughter_music_mentor.modelfile: llama3.2
father_daughter_wisdom_guide.modelfile: llama3.2
feedback_loop_optimizer_fixed.modelfile: llama3.2
feedback_loop_optimizer.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
feedback_loop_optimizer.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
financial_planning_expert_fast.modelfile: llama3.2
financial_planning_expert_optimized.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
financial_planning_expert_v2.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
financial_planning_expert_v3.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
financial_planning_expert_v4.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
financial_planning_expert_v5.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
financial_planning_expert_v6.modelfile: llama3.2
financial_planning_expert_v7.modelfile: llama3.2
guitar_tone_architect.modelfile: llama3.2
health_wellness_optimizer.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
linkedin_content_expert.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
linkedin_voice_architect.modelfile: llama3.2
louisville_expert_v2.modelfile: llama3.2
louisville_expert_v3.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
master_guitar_instructor.modelfile: llama3.2
matthew_context_provider_optimized.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
matthew_context_provider_v2.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
matthew_context_provider.modelfile: llama3.2
mirador_self_reflection_guardian.modelfile: llama3.2
mirador_system_specialist_v2.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
mirador_system_specialist.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
music_career_timeline_strategist.modelfile: llama3.2
music_industry_networker.modelfile: llama3.2
opportunity_analyst.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
opportunity_validator_v2.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
performance_anxiety_coach.modelfile: llama3.2
personal_brand_architect.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
productivity_optimizer.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
sales_content_creator.modelfile: llama3.2_balanced
side_income_opportunity_scout.modelfile: llama3.2
touring_readiness_coach.modelfile: llama3.2
